Hi friends
In this video let us see the implementation of the
minimum coin exchange problem using the greedy algorithm
In the previous video we have learned about the minimum
coin exchange problem using the greedy algorithm this function find
min coins
Take three arguments
First one is the coins in descending order with four
coins 25 20 10 and five
If the coins array is not in sorted order we need
to sort it before finding the solution
Here we have four coins so the size is four
so let's assume we need to find the minimum number
of coins for the value 105
Next create a vector object ans to store the results
So write vector of type integer
ans equal to new vector
Now let us be Clear
integer Variables I and Count and initialise count
to 0
So the main logic here is that take coin of
zero which is the largest value which is 25 here
as much as we can each time we take the
coin we decrement the coin value from the actual value
and while taking the coin increment the count and store the
coin in the ancillary
So this can be achieved using this while loop here if
the actual value become zero which means we have found
the solution so returned account
Otherwise continue the same process with the next coin and
proceed further
So let us see how it works
So in the first iteration of the for loop we
have i equal to zero
So we will take coin of Zero as much as
we can
That is as long as the coin value is less
than or equal to our required value it can be
taken
So we have the while loop for that
And here the condition is true
Since 105 is greater than 25
So we can take coin of zero
So decrement coin of zero from 105 and we
will get the value 105 minus 25 which is 80
So add coin of zero to the ancillary and this is
where we will have our taken coins and we have
taken one coin of the value 25
So it is added here and since a coin is
added increments count now check the while condition again and
it is still true since 80 is greater than 25
So take coin of zero again and subtracted from value
So we will get value equal to 80 minus 25
which is 55
So at this coin to answer array and increment count
So count equal to two now and we got two coins
of value 25 now check the while condition again and
it is still true since 55 is greater than 25
So take coin of zero again and subtracted from value
So we will get value equal to 55 minus 25
That is 30
Now at this coin to Ans array and increment count So
count becomes three now
And we have three coins of value 25 each
Now check the while condition again And it is still
true since 30 is greater than 25
So take coin of zero again and subtracted from value
So we will get value equal to 30 minus 25
That is five
Now at this going to ancillary and increments count
So count becomes four now
So we have four coins of value 25 each
Now check the while condition again and it will fail
now since five is not greater than or equal to
So it means if we add this coin now it
will exceed the required value
So we cannot add this
Now
So we have to check if we have reached the
required value
So check
If value is equal to zero and it is not
so go for the next iteration of the for loop
now i is equal to one
So check if value five is greater than or equal
to coin of one and it is not so check
If value equal to zero again it will fail
So go for the next iteration and now i is equal
to two and check
If coin of two is less than or equal to
value five and it also fails
So check If value is equal to zero and it
is not so whenever the value becomes zero we can
infer that we have reached the required value but it
is not so
That is why we are continuing this operation now in
the next iteration i is equal to so check
If coin of three is less than or equal to
value five and it is coin of three equal to five
which is equal to the value five so it can
be added
So subtract coin of 3 5  from value five and we
will get zero and it will be stored in value
Now at this coin to Ans array and increment count
So count will become five now and next
When we checked the while condition it fails
So it checks
If we have reached the required value and here it
will be true
The value is equal to zero now So break out
of the for loop and return count which is the
minimum number of coins which is five here
So with the coins of value 25 20 10 and five
we need a minimum of five coins to make the
value 105
That is the minimum number of coins for the value
105 is five and the coins are four coins of
value 25 1 coin of value five.